## Covy App

As a region, the Caribbean economy relies heavily on tourism and therefore it was imperative that countries, especially Jamaica, open their borders during the COVID-19 pandemic. Doing so safely, requires frequent testing and putting the infrastructure in place to monitor visitors and effectively carry out contact tracing when necessary. Due to the high cost of testing, we have already seen where the testing efforts of Jamaica have dwindled and many visitors are entering the island without being tested. There is also no system in place to monitor tourist movement across the island after the quarantine period. While imported cases are of high concern, any solution to this issue should be able to scale to local citizens of the country as well.

## Solution 
Covy was built as a mobile app to solve the aforementioned problems by making it easy for tourists to monitor their covid-related symptoms as soon as they enter the country. While they are in the country, Covy acts as their companion, allowing them to update any changes in their symptoms/health each day. Considering the reluctance of users to provide GPS location access to apps they use, Covy lowers the barriers to use by using a simple check-in system. Participating tourist destinations and businesses will all receive a location QR code that will be displayed at entry points. Tourists visiting these locations can simply scan the QR code using their Covy app in a quick and seamless manner to gain entry. Additionally, Covy can provide locations requiring information on a users’ health status for entry with a quick way to scan a person’s Covy QR code and get information about their symptom status.

This check-in component then allows us to perform contact tracing by cross-referencing other Covy users who checked in at overlapping locations, dates and times with users who are reported positive for COVID-19. This is critical for the containment of the spreading of the virus. Our solution allows for immediate logging of places visited and symptoms shown at a given time, removing the need for “recalling” information from the user, days or weeks after visiting an area prior to contraction of the disease. 
Covy can be used by local citizens to track their locations while in public and ensure they stay informed and safe. In the effort of making COVID-19 information accessible, Covy also features a dashboard for every user that shows COVID statistics for the country as well as prevalence maps that show areas where there is a high number of reported cases. The application also displays relevant news information from a variety of sources. These are all vital features that will help us keep both tourists and locals safe as borders remain open and we have implemented it in a way that will optimize for user participation by removing the concern that we are constantly accessing their GPS location. 
